We've explored how
SIEM tools are used
to collect and analyze log data.
However, this is just one of
the many ways SIEM tools
are used in cybersecurity.
SIEM tools can also be used
to create dashboards.
You might have
encountered dashboards
in an app on your
phone or other device.
They present information
about your account or
location in a format
that's easy to understand.
For example,
weather apps display
data like temperature,
precipitation,
wind speed, and the
forecast using charts,
graphs, and other
visual elements.
This format makes
it easy to quickly
identify weather
patterns and trends,
so you can stay prepared and
plan your day accordingly.
Just like weather
apps help people make
quick and informed
decisions based on data,
SIEM dashboards help
security analysts
quickly and easily access
their organization's
security information as
charts, graphs, or tables.
For example, a security analyst
receives an alert about a
suspicious login attempt.
The analyst accesses
their SIEM dashboard
to gather information
about this alert.
Using the dashboard,
the analyst discovers
that there have been
500 login attempts
for Ymara's
account in the span
of five-minutes.
They also discover that the
login attempts happened from
geographic locations
outside of Ymara's
usual location and outside
of her usual working hours.
By using a dashboard,
the security analyst was
able to quickly review
visual representations
of the timeline
of the login attempts,
the location, and the exact
time of the activity,
then determine that the
activity was suspicious.
In addition to providing
a comprehensive summary
of security-related data,
SIEM dashboards also provide
stakeholders with
different metrics.
Metrics are key
technical attributes
such as response time,
availability, and failure rate,
which are used to assess
the performance of a
software application.
SIEM dashboards can be
customized to display
specific metrics
or other data that are relevant
to different members
in an organization.
For example, a security
analyst may create a dashboard
that displays metrics for
monitoring everyday
business operations,
like the volume of incoming
and outgoing network traffic.
We've examined how
security analysts use
SIEM dashboards to help
organizations maintain
their security posture.
Well done!
Coming up, we'll discuss some
common SIEM tools
used in the cybersecurity
industry. Meet you there.